# Day 10 - (Optional) Making logins easier

## INTRO

## SSH KEYS

Using a key instead of a password can make logging in much easier. This can either also make your system less secure, or provide a rare combination of both easier to use as well as more secure. Usually we have to pick just one of those two.

Keys work in place of a password, substituting "something you know" (the password) with "something you have" (the key.) The risk is that someone might get hold of that key, which is not especially difficult if you work from a system shared with others or from a system with typical levels of general security (e.g. a normal Windows desktop PC.)

Fortunately ssh keys can be protected with a password (or pass phrase, really) combining both so security is improved. But how is this any different? You still need to enter a password each time, just now it's for a key instead of the system itself. Arguably, this is even more difficult than just using a password since you would need to set up the keys. So why bother?

Because `ssh-agent` can make this local password entry process much less painful. It will hold on to your password locally so your key is available as needed. Using `ssh-agent` you only need to type your password (or a much more complex pass phrase.) Since you only need to enter this once per session (e.g. daily) it makes using very long pass phrases more tolerable and increases your security.

TODO: Describe ssh-agent and authorized_keys

## SUDOERS

TODO: Describe sudoedit and NOPASSWD

## RESOURCES

*2021 Steve Bonds. Can be reused under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Licence (CC BY 4.0).*
